Hi, everyone, in this letter, we are going to talk about functions and objects.
All right, so we have covered how we can use functions as items for objects.
Sorry for iRace, but how about objects?
Can we use functions as object properties?
Yes, we can.
And in just one minute, I'm going to show you.
But before that, we do have another kind of loop for arrays as well.
We have another kind of loop in JavaScript as well, because and that loop is actually the basic syntax
and that is called the for loop.
So what I'm going to do is I've just commented out the regular for loop and in here we are going to
say four of the four of loop.
Right.
Or four of.
We can't.
Well, actually, the syntax is way simpler than the for loop itself, and this is the proper time to
go over the syntax and talk about the four off loops.
So the first week we write the for loop the for loop syntax itself and the syntax, the block is the
same as the for a loop.
But the part, the cool part is what happens inside the parentheses.
Excuse me.
So in here what do we want to do is we create a variable but not the regular kind of variable.
We say LAT.
Avg score of what led average score of scores now in here, we access we access our array and this average
score of scores is going to access first the first item in the first iteration, it is going to access
the average mike score because we are we have just gate.
We have just given it the reference of this scores array.
So this for let off average score knows it should go into which array and it should iterate over which
array.
So when it comes to this, it is in the first iteration, it is going to grab the average my score and
in the second iteration it is going to grab the average Joey score.
Right.
So now what do we want to do when these two iterations happen?
What do we want to do?
We basically want to do the same thing.
Let's copy it.
Let's face it here, because the four of Loop and the the for loop, they work in the same way.
And now, oh gosh, there is an error.
It says a reference error.
It means that something is not defined because our variable for the for loop, for our loop is the average
score.
And in here it says so let's just replace it and let's save it.
And it says scores average score function is not defined.
Right, because actually the variable is not defined in this way.
All right.
So in here, because we have successfully access the array, we don't have to access it anymore, OK?
We don't have to access it again.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to reference our loop variable,
which is the average score.
And I'm going to pass in two argument, two arguments, and I'm going to save and we are going to get
these.
And the result that we had before and what has just happened here.
So we say when the when the for of loop has a variable called average score, it is going to tap inside
an array and we don't have to provide it with a like a starting point or an increment or a condition.
We just say go to this array and iterate over it as many times as the array has items.
Right.
So if the array has two items, it is going to iterate over this array two times.
If the array has five items, it is going to loop through this array five times.
So we don't have to specify.
That's why the E is six syntax is way easier than the previous syntax.
This for us.
Look, this is E is six.
And when we say an average score of scores, this automatically this average scores variable is going
to start from the first item and is going to go all the way to the last item without thinking about
the index.
But as far as we just did it with the regular loop, we had to take care of the we have to be careful
about the index as well.
And we should do length and then index.
But there is no length an index in this one.
That's why it is easier.
And this average score, whenever it grabs the first item and I'm just going to give you a demo.
So the first item is going to be is going to come right here and we it as an argument hundred and twenty
to this average, my score function, which is fed from here and then this result is stored inside the
result variable.
And then we simply printed there.
And then in the second iteration, the average score is going to be passed right in here.
And then we pass in two arguments for the parameters of that function.
And then we store it inside this variable and then we call the variable.
That's how simple it is.
So this is the four of what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and comment it out.
And now let's talk about functions as object properties.
All right, so in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create another I'm going to create another
score, but this time this scores.
It is not going to be an array.
It is going to be an object.
And so I'm just going to comment out these two.
I'm going to leave out the functions because we are going to use them.
So we say const.
Scores, but this time this is a function.
Notice the curly braces, so here what I'm going to do, the key is going to be my score and the value
is going to be that function.
So the value is going to be the same thing as the item that we had for our array.
Right.
And I'm going to say, Joey.
Joey's core.
And let's set it equal to.
Average Joe scored the function.
So now we have successfully used functions as object properties.
All right, so now what we can do is we can call these functions through creating another method.
So whenever we call, we use functions as object properties.
We tend to create new methods.
So we do have intrinsic JavaScript methods, which we talked about, like Paape, like push, like includes
and like all of them.
But we can create methods of our own as well.
So how can we do that?
So let's go ahead and let's consider log this object.
So it is a Skouras object.
And let's say I want to access this score for the mike.
For the mike.
And now we have successfully accessed the score for that and now we have to provide it with some sort
of data.
So what what are the arguments that we want to pass in here?
Let's say hundred and twenty.
And when I say that we are going to get zero point to fight.
Now, what has happened here, whenever we grab these scores object and when we do the DOT syntax,
we can access the properties and the methods of that object.
We know that we have covered that in the objects chapter.
But one, when when we pass in a function as a value of a key, we should open open parentheses because
it is a function you should you should open parentheses with functions.
Right.
But now, because this function has been called as a function, as a as an object method or as an object
property, this function is no longer called function.
What is it called?
It is called a method.
And we have talked about methods.
So voila, we just created another method in JavaScript.
And this way is actually the best way of doing it because we can provide specific values for Mike and
for Joe.
We can say let's say Joey has gotten better and it's going to be zero point five, which is twice of
that of the mike.
All right.
So I'm going to go over this syntax one more time.
We have created two two functions here.
The first one is a function declaration and the second one is a function expression.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to capitalize this one and I'm going to remove this and I'm
going to copy this comment as well.
Actually, it makes more sense to be here.
An object properties functions as object properties, it makes more sense this way, so we have created
a function declaration and in a function expression, these are nothing new, right?
So these are functions.
And now we have passed those two functions as keys to two, as values to two keys inside this object
and the object name is Schaus.
So we talked about how we can access the keys from any regular object.
So think of this as a regular object, not like a complicated object inside of which we have functions.
No, no, no, no.
This think of it as a regular object.
So if I ask you, how would you access.
Key value pairs or properties of an object, you would say, I can access it through the DOT syntax,
all right, or I can access it through the brackets or the array syntax.
I can access it in both ways.
And both of them are correct.
And we have talked about both of them in the Objects chapter.
Right.
So whenever you access the key of Mike score, what is the value for that?
The value is average.
My score.
And what is that?
That is a function.
So when that is a function, when you're accessing that, it means you're calling that function.
So we are calling this average score function.
So what do we call the function inside the function call?
We pass in and we pass in arguments.
That's why we open parentheses and we pass in arguments.
Even even if the function of average Mike's score doesn't have any parameters because it is a function,
you should open the parentheses.
And now looking at this syntax, it means that we have just created another method for these objects,
because when functions are called upon objects, they are converted from functions to methods.
They do the same thing, but the name changes from a function to a method.
We have talked about this before as well.
And now because this is called upon discourse, this is no longer function.
This is a method and this is a method call which calls this function.
And we passed in two arguments, one hundred and two.
And both of them have come here and they have calculated that they're.
And the same thing goes for a score, that's it for this Lutcher.
See you guys in the next one.